README.md, before:

# Eopsin example contract

This is a sample repository to get you started with compiling your own smart contract with eopsin in less than 10 minutes (even less if you have python3.8 already installed!).
It requires you to know how to use the terminal on your computer ([Ubuntu and other Linux distributions](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/command-line-for-beginners/), [Windows](https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/a-beginners-guide-to-the-windows-command-line/), [Mac](https://support.apple.com/guide/terminal/execute-commands-and-run-tools-apdb66b5242-0d18-49fc-9c47-a2498b7c91d5/mac)).
You should also have `git` installed.

## Installation

#### TL;DR

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ImperatorLang/eopsin-example.git
$ cd eopsin-example
$ python3.8 -m venv venv
$ pip install -r requirements
```

Done! If you have no clue what happened here, feel free to read the next section, which explains it step for step.
Otherwise, skip to [Running](#Running)

#### Install Python

Make sure you have `python3.8` installed.
If you don't have it installed, follow [this tutorial](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/download-and-install-python-3-latest-version/) or just google for it.
Python is the second most used language on GitHub, there are tons of tutorials on how to use it.

#### Clone the repository

Once you have installed python, clone this repository.
Open your terminal and navigate to a folder, then run

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ImperatorLang/eopsin-example.git
```

This copies this repository on your local computer.
If you want to modify the code and keep your modifications, [fork the repository first](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo), then clone the fork instead.

Then navigate into the the repository using the CLI, like this

```
$ cd eopsin-example
```

#### Setup the environment

This project uses the specific version of python 3.8.
For this reason we want to make sure that only this version is used for all operations.
A common way to establish that i.e. `python` also refers to `python3.8` is to set up a virtual environment.

```
$ python3.8 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
```

You are now in a so called virtual environment.
Make sure to run the `source` command everytime you enter this repository to work on the contract,
or configure your IDE to use the created virtual environment.
When operations require you to be inside the environment, commands are prefixed with `(venv)`.

#### Install eopsin

We're almost done.
As the final step, we install the compiler, `eopsin-lang`.
We can simply use `pip` for this.
We install all projects listed in `requirements.txt`, which includes `eopsin-lang`.
If you want to use other tools as well, you can add them there!

```bash
(venv) $ pip install -r requirements.txt
```


## Running

The main code for the smart contract is located in `src`.
You can build the contract with eopsin in a single command:

```bash
(venv) $ # builds the spending example, a contract that controls who can spend funds
(venv) $ eopsin-lang build src/contract_spend.py
(venv) $ # builds the minting example, a contract that controls who can mint tokens
(venv) $ eopsin-lang build src/contract_mint.py
```

Now you will find a number of useful artifacts in the folders `contract_mint` and `contract_spend`,
among them a `script.plutus` file used by the CLI and other tools for using the contract in transactions,
the address of the contract on main- and testnets and the policy id of the token for which the contract controls minting.

Examples on how to use smart contracts for minting and spending can be found for different tools:
- Cardano CLI (Shell): [Spending](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/blob/master/doc/reference/plutus/plutus-spending-script-example.md), [Minting](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/blob/master/doc/reference/plutus/plutus-minting-script-example.md)
- PyCardano (Python): [Spending](https://pycardano.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/plutus.html)
- Lucid (TypeScript): [Spending](https://aiken-lang.org/example--vesting#off-chain-code)

More example smart contracts can be found [in the example section of eopsin](https://github.com/ImperatorLang/eopsin/tree/master/examples).

Commit message:

Add an example test-suite

README.md, after:

# Eopsin example contract

This is a sample repository to get you started with compiling your own smart contract with eopsin in less than 10 minutes (even less if you have python3.8 already installed!).
It requires you to know how to use the terminal on your computer ([Ubuntu and other Linux distributions](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/command-line-for-beginners/), [Windows](https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/a-beginners-guide-to-the-windows-command-line/), [Mac](https://support.apple.com/guide/terminal/execute-commands-and-run-tools-apdb66b5242-0d18-49fc-9c47-a2498b7c91d5/mac)).
You should also have `git` installed.

## Installation

#### TL;DR

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ImperatorLang/eopsin-example.git
$ cd eopsin-example
$ python3.8 -m venv venv
$ pip install -r requirements
```

Done! If you have no clue what happened here, feel free to read the next section, which explains it step for step.
Otherwise, skip to [Running](#Running)

#### Install Python

Make sure you have `python3.8` installed.
If you don't have it installed, follow [this tutorial](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/download-and-install-python-3-latest-version/) or just google for it.
Python is the second most used language on GitHub, there are tons of tutorials on how to use it.

#### Clone the repository

Once you have installed python, clone this repository.
Open your terminal and navigate to a folder, then run

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ImperatorLang/eopsin-example.git
```

This copies this repository on your local computer.
If you want to modify the code and keep your modifications, [fork the repository first](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo), then clone the fork instead.

Then navigate into the the repository using the CLI, like this

```
$ cd eopsin-example
```

#### Setup the environment

This project uses the specific version of python 3.8.
For this reason we want to make sure that only this version is used for all operations.
A common way to establish that i.e. `python` also refers to `python3.8` is to set up a virtual environment.

```
$ python3.8 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
```

You are now in a so called virtual environment.
Make sure to run the `source` command everytime you enter this repository to work on the contract,
or configure your IDE to use the created virtual environment.
When operations require you to be inside the environment, commands are prefixed with `(venv)`.

#### Install eopsin

We're almost done.
As the final step, we install the compiler, `eopsin-lang`.
We can simply use `pip` for this.
We install all projects listed in `requirements.txt`, which includes `eopsin-lang`.
If you want to use other tools as well, you can add them there!

```bash
(venv) $ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Testing

Run the tests for this contract like this:
```bash
(venv) $ python3 -m unittest
```

This example includes a simple test suite with a simple example for each how to write
normal tests, parameterized tests and property based tests.
You can check out the packages [parameterized](https://github.com/wolever/parameterized) and [hypothesis](https://hypothesis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
for more information on how to use them.
You can also use any other testing framework for python.


## Deploying

The main code for the smart contract is located in `src`.
You can build the contract with eopsin in a single command:

```bash
(venv) $ # builds the spending example, a contract that controls who can spend funds
(venv) $ eopsin-lang build src/contract_spend.py
(venv) $ # builds the minting example, a contract that controls who can mint tokens
(venv) $ eopsin-lang build src/contract_mint.py
```

Now you will find a number of useful artifacts in the folders `contract_mint` and `contract_spend`,
among them a `script.plutus` file used by the CLI and other tools for using the contract in transactions,
the address of the contract on main- and testnets and the policy id of the token for which the contract controls minting.

Examples on how to use smart contracts for minting and spending can be found for different tools:
- Cardano CLI (Shell): [Spending](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/blob/master/doc/reference/plutus/plutus-spending-script-example.md), [Minting](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/blob/master/doc/reference/plutus/plutus-minting-script-example.md)
- PyCardano (Python): [Spending](https://pycardano.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/plutus.html)
- Lucid (TypeScript): [Spending](https://aiken-lang.org/example--vesting#off-chain-code)

More example smart contracts can be found [in the example section of eopsin](https://github.com/ImperatorLang/eopsin/tree/master/examples).
